AIRBRAIN H743 (#31262)
ArduPilot/ardupilot: libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/AIRBRAINH743/README.md

# AIRBRAINH743 Flight Controller

The AIRBRAINH743 is a flight controller designed and produced by Gear Up.

## Features

 - MCU - STM32H743xx 32-bit processor running at 480 MHz
 - IMU - Invensense ICM-42688-P
 - Barometer - DPS368
 - Magnetometer - LIS2MDL
 - 128 Mbytes flash-based logging
 - Battery input voltage: 3S-10S
 - BEC 5V 2A
 - BEC 10V 2.5A
 - 7x UARTs
 - 9x PWM Outputs (8 Motor Output, 1 LED)

 ## Pinout
 
 ![AIRBRAINH743 Board Top](pinoutTop.png "AIRBRAINH743 Top")
 ![AIRBRAINH743 Board Bottom](pinoutBottom.png "AIRBRAINH743 Bottom")

## UART Mapping

> The UARTs are marked Rn and Tn in the above pinouts. The Rn pin is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UARTs are marked RX and TX in the above pinouts. The RX pin is the
```

> receive pin for UARTn. The Tn pin is the transmit pin for UARTn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
receive pin. The TX pin is the transmit pin .
```

 - SERIAL0 -> USB (MAVLink2)

>  - SERIAL1 -> USART1 (Spare)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - SERIAL1 -> USART1 (None)
```

 - SERIAL2 -> USART2 (RCIN, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL3 -> USART3 (MSP DisplayPort, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL4 -> UART4 (GPS, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL5 -> UART5 (GPS, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL7 -> UART7 (ESCTelemetry)
 - SERIAL8 -> UART8 (GPS, DMA-enabled)

## RC Input

The default RC input is configured on USART2. RC could  be applied instead to a different UART port such as EMPTY,  and set
the protocol to receive RC data ``SERIALn_PROTOCOL`` = 23 and change :ref:`SERIAL2 _PROTOCOL <SERIAL2 _PROTOCOL>`
to something other than '23'. For rc protocols other than unidirectional, the USART2_TX pin will need to be used:

> 

Reviewer: needs explanation about using UART5 as RC (SBUS) from the HD VTX connector instead of UART2

>  - :ref:`SERIAL2_PROTOCOL<SERIAL2_PROTOCOL>` should be set to "23".

Reviewer: remove, unneeded

 - FPort would require :ref:`SERIAL2_OPTIONS<SERIAL2_OPTIONS>` be set to "15".
 - CRSF would require :ref:`SERIAL2_OPTIONS<SERIAL2_OPTIONS>` be set to "0".
 - SRXL2 would require :ref:`SERIAL2_OPTIONS<SERIAL2_OPTIONS>` be set to "4" and connects only the TX pin.

## PWM Output

The AIRBRAINH743 supports up to 9 PWM or DShot outputs. The pads for motor output
M1 to M9 are provided on both the motor connectors and on separate pads, plus
separate pads for LED strip and other PWM outputs.

The PWM is in 4 groups:

 - PWM 1-4   in group1
 - PWM 5-6   in group2
 - PWM 7-8   in group3
 - PWM 9   in group4

Channels within the same group need to use the same output rate. If
any channel in a group uses DShot then all channels in the group need
to use DShot. Channels 1-8 support bi-directional dshot.

## Battery Monitoring

The board has a internal voltage sensor and connections on the ESC connector for an external current sensor input.
The voltage sensor can handle up to 6S LiPo batteries.

The default battery parameters are:

 - :ref:`BATT_MONITOR<BATT_MONITOR>` = 4
 - :ref:`BATT_VOLT_PIN<BATT_VOLT_PIN__AP_BattMonitor_Analog>` = 4

>  - :ref:`BATT_CURR_PIN<BATT_CURR_PIN__AP_BattMonitor_Analog>` = 8 (CURR pin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - :ref:`BATT_CURR_PIN<BATT_CURR_PIN__AP_BattMonitor_Analog>` = 8 (CURRENT pin)
```
